The Young Ambassador Program is organized 
through the Friends of Saint Patrick organization
and the Saint Patrick Centre in Downpatrick, 
Northern Ireland. The Young Ambassadors Program
is a program promoted by the Friends of Saint 
Patrick Chapters in North America. It is designed to
promote a greater understanding of the shared 
cultural heritage of Northern Ireland in North 
America amongst those aged 20-25*. Based on the 
application on this website and following an 
interview process, Young Ambassadors will be 
selected to travel to Northern Ireland to explore 
various aspects of the history and traditions of the
island of Ireland and develop their own chosen 
cultural dissertations. They will complete their 
agreed dissertations when they go home and 
following a successful review will be formally
made Young Ambassadors. 

Dr. Tim Campbell is the Executive Director of the Saint Patrick Centre, the 
only permanent exhibition about Saint Patrick in the world. The Saint 
Patrick Centre is located in the medieval town of Downpatrick in County 
Down, Northern Ireland - Saint Patrick’s Country.

Dr. Campbell founded the Friends of Saint Patrick organization as a charity 
in America and Canada 10 years ago and has been running the Young 
Ambassador Program since 2007. 

Young Ambassadors are chosen by their chapters with the aim of learning 
about the mission of the Saint Patrick Centre and Northern Ireland and 
being involved in workplace experiences which will further their careers. 

A broad area of cultural research project interest should be noted within this application 
and the successful applicant will be mentored to develop these within work placements. Areas 
of interest could relate to any particular aspect of life the North of Ireland including 
aspects of history, culture, music, reconciliation and Ulster-American links. In the past 
media students have worked with local newspapers, political students with local elected 
representatives, those interested in community studies with local volunteer networks, heritage 
students with organizations like the National Trust, Scots Irish students with the Ulster Scots 
Agency and those interested in education with local schools. The cultural research projects will 
be devised prior to departure and developed throughout the Program in Northern Ireland. They will be 
finalized within one month of return and submitted to the Saint Patrick Centre.

Source: (https://www.youngambassadorprogram.com/about)