St. Patrick is Ireland's patron saint, known for 
spreading Christianity throughout the country as a 
missionary during the 5th century.

Who Was St. Patrick?
Born somewhere in Britain arguably in the late 
4th century A.D., the man who would come to 
be known as St. Patrick was captured by pirates 
as a child and brought to Ireland. 

During his enslavement, he was called to 
Christianity and escaped his captors after six 
years. He returned to Ireland as a missionary, 
and in his teachings combined Irish pagan 
beliefs with Christian sacrament. He is annually 
honored on his feast day, March 17.

Early Life
The man who would come to be known as St. 
Patrick, apostle of Ireland, was born in Britain 
circa 386 A.D. Much of his life is unknown to 
historians and can't be verified, though some 
sources have listed his birth name as Maewyn 
Succat, with the name Patrick later taken on 
during his religious journeys or ordainment.

His father, Calphurnius, was a deacon from a 
Roman family of high social standing. Patrick's 
mother, Conchessa, was a close relative of the 
great patron St. Martin of Tours. Patrick's 
grandfather, Pontius, was also a member of the 
clergy. 

Surprisingly, Patrick himself was not raised with 
a strong emphasis on religion. Education was 
not particularly stressed during his childhood 
either. 

Later in life, this would become a source of embarrassment for the 
spiritual icon, who would write in his Confessio, "I blush and fear 
exceedingly to reveal my lack of education."

Enslaved as a Teen
When Patrick was 16 years old, he was captured by Irish pirates. They 
brought him to Ireland where he was sold into slavery in Dalriada. There 
his job was to tend sheep. 

Patrick's master, Milchu, was a high priest of Druidism, a Pagan sect that 
held major religious influence over the country at the time.

Patrick came to view his enslavement as God's test of his faith. During his 
six years of captivity, he became deeply devoted to Christianity through 
constant prayer. In a vision, he saw the children of pagan Ireland reaching 
out their hands to him and grew increasingly determined to convert the 
Irish to Christianity.

Freedom & Religious Calling
Around 408 A.D., the idea of escaping enslavement came to Patrick in a 
dream, in which a voice promised him he would find his way home to 
Britain. Eager to see the dream materialize, Patrick convinced some 
sailors to let him board their ship. 

After three days of sailing, he and the crew abandoned the vessel in 
France and wandered, lost, for 28 days—covering 200 miles of territory in 
the process, with Patrick ultimately becoming reunited with his family.

A free man once again, Patrick went to Auxerre, France, where he studied 
and entered the priesthood under the guidance of the missionary St. 
Germain. He was ordained a deacon by the Bishop of Auxerre around 418 
A.D. 

As time passed, he never lost sight of his vision to convert Ireland to 
Christianity. In 432 A.D., he was ordained as a bishop and was soon sent 
by Pope Celestine I to Ireland to spread the gospel to non-believers while 
also providing support to the small community of Christians already living 
there.

Missionary Work 
Upon his arrival in Ireland, Patrick was initially met with resistance, but 
managed to spread Christian teachings far and wide, along with other 
missionaries, through preaching, writing and performing countless 
baptisms. 

Recognizing the history of spiritual practices already in place, nature-
oriented pagan rituals were also incorporated into church practices. It is 
believed that Patrick may have introduced the Celtic cross, which 
combined a native sun-worshiping symbology with that of the Christian 
cross.

Throughout his missionary work, Patrick supported church officials, 
created councils, founded monasteries and organized Ireland into 
dioceses. 

Death & Legacy: St. Patrick's Day
St. Patrick died circa 461 A.D. in Saul, Ireland, and is said to have been 
buried in the nearby town of Downpatrick, County Down. St. Patrick is 
recognized as the patron saint of Ireland, and his writings, noted for their 
humble voice, include the autobiographical Confessio and Letter to 
Coroticus. 

Many legends also have been associated with his life including that he 
drove away all the snakes from Ireland and he introduced the Holy Trinity 
through the three-leaved shamrock.

St. Patrick is annually honored with the celebration of St. Patrick's Day on 
March 17 (which some cite as the date of his death), which falls during the 
Christian season of Lent. For more than 1,000 years, the Irish have 
observed St. Patrick's Day as a religious holiday. 

Traditionally, on St. Patrick's Day, families attend church in the morning 
and observe other rituals—including eating a traditional meal of cabbage 
and Irish bacon. The holiday has expanded into the secular world as well, 
becoming a robust international celebration of Irish culture and heritage. 

Source: (https://www.biography.com/people/st-patrick-9434729)